- fsimage – An fsimage file contains the complete state of the file system at a point in time. Every file system modification is assigned a unique, monotonically increasing transaction ID. An fsimage file represents the file system state after all modifications up to a specific transaction ID.

- edits – An edits file is a log that lists each file system change (file creation, deletion or modification) that was made after the most recent fsimage.

A namespace in general refers to the collection of names within a system. Within hadoop this refers to the file names with their paths maintained by a name node. For example the file name /user/jim/logfile will be different from /user/linda/logfile where as the namespace will include both these names. In hadoop, HDFS is the framework (Hadoop distributed file system) for storage of data. It has two components name node and data node. Name node is the master server that maintains the metadata about the files in the system where as the data node stores the actual data. Metadata maintained by the name node includes the name of the file (including path), size, owner, group, permissions, block size etc. The namenode also gets a report from data nodes called block report that contains the location of each block of a file within that data node. The namenode stores the metadata about the files in memory as well as disc. This metadata is stored in a file called fsimage. The block report data is not stored on the disk and is computed dynamically from the block report received from the data nodes.

The fsimage is read from the disk when namenode starts and maintained in memory. Any changes done to the filesystem (adding a file, removing a file etc) are not written to fsimage immediately and are maintained in a separate file on disk called editlog. When a name node starts, it syncs the edit log changes with the old fsimage file and updates that into a new copy. This process of updating the changes from the edit log to the fsimage file can also be done by a periodic checkpointing process by the secondary namenode.